# Mapping_Earthquakes

This repository was created to provide a mapping webpage for recent earthquakes that have happened around the world. Using visual studio code, we created files that pull in recent eartquake data using an API, and subsuquently map that data using a few different map styles. The page will populate with the most recent data available, so users can refresh/revisit the page as needed to make sure data is up to date. Each earthquake will appear as a circle on the map, with varying size and color that  corresponds to the magnitude of the earthquake being represented.

Additionally, we included a couple more layers to the maps that we think will help with visual interpretation. First, we added a layer that highlights the tectonic plate boundaries. Earthquakes most often occur on or near these boundaries, and because of this correlation it makes sense to add simple outlines of the plates so that users can visualize the connection. The second additional layer is essentially an extension of the earthquake data circles. In order to better distinguish the larger, more severe eartquakes, this last layer re-sizes the circles so that those with a magnitude below 5 are smallest, those between 5 and 6 are medium-sized, and the quakes with a magnitude 6 or higher are the largest. It also changes the circle colors so that the user can more easily tell which map layer they are viewing. We felt this was an important element to add because it makes it easier to quickly determine where the larger, more (potentially) destructive quakes have occured. 

In the top right corner, the user of the webpage is able to switch between the three map styles: Streets, Satellite, and Navigation (Night). To add even more functionality to the page, we included clickable boxes that allow the user to toggle on/off the added layers. Up in the corner where the user chooses the map style, there are three boxes that will populate/depopulate the data that they correspond to. The boxes and map styles are, of course, labeled so the users know which data they have selected and which map they are viewing. 
